Attending: Eva Blomqvist, Agnieszka Lawrynowicz, Pascal Hitzler, Valentina Presutti, Aldo Gangemi, Krzysztof Janowicz, Adila Krisnadhi

Regrets: Karl Hammar, Andrea Nuzzolese

Agenda and notes:
 
1) Electing a secretary who takes the minutes of the meeting

Pascal Hitzler elected

2) Question of the correct announcement of the meeting.

Announcement was 3 days too late, but the meeting had no objections to this. Announcement was sent on the ODP mailing list, the ODPA borad list, and individually to the additional ODPA members. 

3) Establishing the agenda

No objections to the proposed agenda.
Suggestion (Pascal) to add discussion of possible Dagstuhl seminar.

4) Summary of activities during 2016, including report from WOP and from the ODP portal development group

WOP 2016 at ISWC 2016. Proceedings to appear as edited book (Adila in charge, one chapter still missing; should get sent to publisher within 2 weeks). Other information about WOP can be found at: http://ontologydesignpatterns.org/wiki/WOP:2016

Tutorial at ISWC 2016. More information can be found at: http://ontologydesignpatterns.org/wiki/Training:Ontology_Design_Patterns_for_Linked_Data_Publishing_at_ISWC_2016

Edited volume (ODP book) was published at IOS press, see: http://www.iospress.nl/book/ontology-engineering-with-ontology-design-patterns-foundations-and-applications/

Tutorial forthcoming at ESWC 2017, see: http://ontologydesignpatterns.org/wiki/Training:Tutorial:_Modular_Ontology_Modeling_with_Ontology_Design_Patterns_at_ESWC2017

There was a start discussing a pattern language, i.e. language to describe patterns, at ISWC (with Giuseppe De Giacomo, Valentina, Pascal). We'll try continue the discussion.  Valentina and Pascal will send their notes (if they find them) to the board, and we'll go from there. Perhaps discuss when meeting at ESWC.

ODP Portal update:
We will be using Docker for portability. Current results are in a GITHUB repository: https://github.com/hammar/OntologyDesignPatterns.org
Can use Semantic MediaWiki now. Old content was backed up into a dropbox folder, including the Wiki.
Action points:
- Integration with Docker to be completed.
- Depending on other engagements of Andrea and Karl, deployment could be within a few weeks.
Requests from the meeting:
- Could Karl and Andrea give a clear timeline/deadline?
It would be very good to have the new portal ready when WOP 2017 gets announced.

5) Election of board members for 2017-2019

The ODPA board is elected by the yearly meeting. Meeting elects the following new board (including board members who's appointments last another year):
* Eva Blomqvist, Linköping University (chair & managing committee - elected 2017-2019)
* Pascal Hitzler, Wright State University (vice chair & managing committee - elected 2017-2019)
* Valentina Presutti, ISTC-CNR (vice chair & managing committee - elected 2016-2018)
* Aldo Gangemi, ISTC-CNR (elected 2016-2018)
* Krzysztof Janowicz, University of California, Santa Barbara (elected 2016-2018)
* Agnieszka Lawrynowicz, Poznan University of Technology (elected 2017-2019)
* Adila Krisnadhi, Wright State University (elected 2017-2019)

Executive members - appointed by the board, included here for information:
* Andrea Nuzzolese, ISTC-CNR (developer of ontologydesignpatterns.org - appointed 2016-2018)
* Karl Hammar, Jönköping University (developer of ontologydesignpatterns.org - appointed 2016-2018)

6) Planning of activities in 2017

 a) Proposing WOP for ISWC 2017
 
We already agreed previously on a name change:
Workshop on Ontology Design and Patterns (WOP) 

WOP will be proposed again, question is who to suggest as chairs?

Potential names for chairs were discussed. Eva will be the general chair an will together with Pascal put together the team. Pascal will invite some chairs while Eva is on vacation, then Eva will write the proposal. We want some seniors, together with new names.

Proposal needs a good motivation why the continued series is still interesting. New directions emerging etc.

 b) VoCamp at ISWC 2017

Could also do a Hackathon on a topic? (Aldo) 
Pascal needs to secure location, and sort organization details. 
Pascal will sort organizational issues, and will follow-up early summer. 
Plan is to have it announced at ISWC notification date.

 c) Other activities

Tutorial at ISWC2017?

Any volunteers for driving a proposal, please speak up.
Danger that it may be too much since we have had two tutorials this year already.
Nobody in the meeting volunteered. 

Possibly Dagstuhl proposal?

Agnieszka interested and will drive a potential proposal, everyone sends ideas and past applications to her. Topics were discussed, potentially along the lines of Ontology Design meets Data Analytics and/or focus on knowledge graphs. Needs also a new twist? E.g. interesting application area?

7) Other suggestions and issues

Summary of actions:

Update board website (Eva)
Update board mailing list (Eva)
Save the minutes and distribute (Eva)
Pascal does chair invitations for wOP
Eva writes WOP proposal
Pascal sends Dagstuhl proposals to Agnieszka
Eva to ask Karl and Andrea for portal timeline
Pascal to drive GeoVoCamp action
Pascal and Valentina send their minutes from the ODP language discussion

8) Closing of the meeting 

Next ODPA board meeting will most likely be a f2f at ESWC.